Server_Side/server_proxies.md, before:

# Proxies

To handle players while sending them to another server or to allow players to join while in different versions you need to use a proxy.
On a network the proxy is as important - if not more important - than the server jar you use.

This list I am compiling here covers all of the different server proxies I have encountered and links to them too.

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Server Transfer | A - Z

[Aegis](https://polymart.org/resource/aegis-the-best-bungeecord-fork.31) : A fork of BungeeCord adding many security measures and with built in anti-bot and anti-vpn. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.3. The developer is currently false banned off of MC-Market.

[BarelyAuthenticated](https://github.com/Mindgamesnl/BarelyAuthenticated) : A fork of BungeeCord which caches players ips and usernames to verify them while Mojang services are unstable. It is created and mainted for the server BlockParty. Not sure of the versions, atleast 1.16.x.

[BungeeCord](https://www.spigotmc.org/wiki/bungeecord/) : BungeeCord is the original way to connect multiple servers together. Today it has quite a few bugs and security concerns. I believe it supports 1.4 - 1.16.5.

[DarkCord](https://github.com/Oculate/DarkCord) : A fork of HexaCord/BungeeCord used and made by the Oculate Network. It supports 1.7.x - 1.11.x.

[DasBungee](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/17481/) : DasBungee is a premium BungeeCord fork that adds an ip blacklist system and patches "all known exploits". It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

[FlameCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/13492/) : FlameCord is a Travertine fork that patches netty exploits that are harmful to BungeeCord. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.5.

[Flexagon](https://github.com/SeaEclipse/Flexagon) : Flexagon is a fork of Hexacord and Travertine meant just for testing purposes. It supports 1.7.x - 1.16.x.

[Gate](https://gate.minekube.com/) : Gate is a custom proxy written in Go with top performance, flexibility, and scalability. I believe it just supports 1.16.x.

[Glymur](https://github.com/StratusNetwork/Glymur) : Glymur is a fork of Travertine adding in some bug fixes and Stratus APIs. It is developed by the StratusNetwork server.

[GoLilypad](https://github.com/LilyPad/GoLilyPad) : A rewrite of Lilypad in the programming language Go. So far no releases (?).

[Gravity](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/17731/) : Gravity is a premium BungeeCord fork adding features like antibot, global messaging, and patches for almost all of the issues.

[GuardHexa](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16180/) : GuardHexa is a premium fork of HexaCord that patches a lot of bugs/exploits and has a bit of optimization. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.4.

[HexaCord](https://github.com/CronixMC/HexaCord) : HexaCord is a bungeecord fork adding Forge support before Waterfall did. It supports 1.7.x - 1.11.x on the GitHub.

[HQBungeeCord](https://github.com/moyugame/HQBungeeCord) : HQBungeeCord is a Waterfall fork aimed at improving stability and performance. No ideas what versions it supports.

[InsaneProxy](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16588/) : InsaneProxy is a premium fork of Travertine and Velocity, resulting in lower CPU usage and more exploits patched. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.x.

[LilyPad](https://github.com/LilyPad/JLilyPad) : A seperate proxy with its own API and plugins that is most likely discontinued.

[Miners-League-BungeeCord](https://github.com/root1599/Miners-League-BungeeCord) : MLBC (for short) is a fork of BungeeCord created by and used by the Miners League Minigames Network for any custom patches/features they may need.

[NachoBungee](https://github.com/CobbleSword/NachoBungee) : NachoBungee is by the guys from NachoSpigot, which is a bad sign. On the GitHub page they list off features of what they forked, nothing new. Basically just Travertine I guess.

[SecureCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/15002/) : SecureCord is a free BungeeCord fork which patches from harmful exploits.

[SSCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/14562/) : SSCord is a premium fork of Waterfall adding some optimizations, anti-bot features like captcha, and patches some waterfall exploits. It supports 1.7.2 - 1.16.5.

[Travertine](https://papermc.io/downloads#Travertine) : A fork of Waterfall adding support for more legacy versions. Supports 1.7.2 - 1.16.5

[VanillaCord](https://github.com/ME1312/VanillaCord/tree/1.12) : VanillaCord is a BungeeCord fork allowing Vanilla servers to connect through BungeeCord. It supports 1.12.x - 1.16.x.

[Velocity](https://velocitypowered.com/) : A custom proxy with more software support. Supports versions 1.7.2 to 1.16.5.

[WaterCrash](https://www.mc-market.org/threads/559656/) : WaterCrash is a premium WaterFall fork adding 1.7.x support, adds real time ip blacklisting, and a crash/exploit preventer. It supports 1.7.x - 1.15.x. Currently the resource purchase page is deleted for unknown reasons.

[Waterfall](https://papermc.io/downloads#Waterfall) : WaterFall is a BungeeCord fork that adds performance optimizations, bug fixes, and supports forge servers. I don't know the versions for it.

[wCord](https://github.com/wtfaremyinitials/wCord) : A fork of BungeeCord with animated MOTDs. Supports 1.4.7 - 1.6.4.

[XCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16843/) : XCord is a premium Travertine fork that adds antibot, antivpn, and some more general patches/performance increases. All while supporting 1.7.x - 1.16.5.

[zBungeeCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/10187/) : zBungeeCord is a premium BungeeCord fork optimizing BungeeCord quite a bit and cleaning up the commands.
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Client Protocols | A - Z

[BCtrysk](https://github.com/DJIronic/BCtrysk) : A custom fork of Geyser used by the BurningCube.eu server. I believe it just adds some custom patches.

[DragonProxy](https://github.com/DragonetMC/DragonProxy) : DragonProxy was the first way to get Bedrock players on a Java edition server. Today it has fallen behind though.

[FloodGate](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Floodgate/) : FloodGate is an add-on to Geyser which (from my knowledge) allows your server to be in online mode while letting Bedrock edition mode in.

[Geyser](https://geysermc.org/) : Geyser is basically a way to allow Bedrock edition players to join a Java edition server. I believe your server needs to be an offline (cracked) one for it to work though.

[LoyaltyMC-pspe](https://github.com/reflykunz/LoyaltyMC-pspe) : LoyaltyMC-pspe is a ProtocolSupport fork that adds Pocket Edition support and some optimizations. It runs on 1.13.2 and allows players in 1.4.7 - 1.13.2 Java edition to join or 1.9 - 1.12 Pocket Edition players to join.

[ProtocolSupport](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocolsupport.7201/) : Before there was ViaVersion, there was ProtocolSupport. Its quite buggy and support is quite lacking, but more versions can log in. Currently only works in 1.16.5, but clients 1.4.7 - 1.16.x can join using this. It is added like any other plugin like ViaVersion, completely plug and play.

[ProtocolSupport-Bedrock-Dev](https://github.com/Xernium/ProtocolSupport-Bedrock-Dev) : PSBD (for short) is a fork of ProtocolSupport which attempted to add Pocket Edition support

[ProtocolSupportPE](https://github.com/gIsForGravity/ProtocolSupportPE) : ProtocolSupportPE is a fork of ProtocolSupport which added Pocket Edition support to Java edition. It is currently only 1.13.2 though, but supports 1.4.7 - 1.13.x.

[ViaBackwards](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viabackwards.27448/) : ViaBackwards is an add-on to ViaVersion allowing older versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in older versions can join. It supports 1.10.x to 1.16.x.

[ViaRewind](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viarewind.52109/) : ViaRewind is an add-on to ViaVersion allowing even older versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in even older versions can join. It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

[ViaVersion](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viaversion.19254/) : ViaVersion is a plug and play way to allow anyone on newer versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in newer versions can join. It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Recommendations

For your proxy, I personally can only recommend [FlameCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/13492/). It's made by a great developer with open support, has all the patches you need, and is free. In my opinion, an easy decision.

For client protocols, I would go with [ViaVersion](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viaversion.19254/) and its add-ons for allowing more Java edition versions, and if you need to add Bedrock support go with [Geyser](https://geysermc.org/). They're both very reputable and get updates often, beating out the competition.

Commit message:

added 2 new
added Avalanche and Mudslide

Server_Side/server_proxies.md, after:

# Proxies

To handle players while sending them to another server or to allow players to join while in different versions you need to use a proxy.
On a network the proxy is as important - if not more important - than the server jar you use.

This list I am compiling here covers all of the different server proxies I have encountered and links to them too.

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Server Transfer | A - Z

[Aegis](https://polymart.org/resource/aegis-the-best-bungeecord-fork.31) : A fork of BungeeCord adding many security measures and with built in anti-bot and anti-vpn. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.3. The developer is currently false banned off of MC-Market.

[Avalanche](https://github.com/pl3xgaming/Avalanche) : Avalanche is a fork of Waterfall with unknown features in unknown versions. I know nothing about it other than the
fact that it was developed by the same guy who makes the PurPur server jar. It is abandoned (I think?)

[BarelyAuthenticated](https://github.com/Mindgamesnl/BarelyAuthenticated) : A fork of BungeeCord which caches players ips and usernames to verify them while Mojang services are unstable. It is created and mainted for the server BlockParty. Not sure of the versions, atleast 1.16.x.

[BungeeCord](https://www.spigotmc.org/wiki/bungeecord/) : BungeeCord is the original way to connect multiple servers together. Today it has quite a few bugs and security concerns. I believe it supports 1.4 - 1.16.5.

[DarkCord](https://github.com/Oculate/DarkCord) : A fork of HexaCord/BungeeCord used and made by the Oculate Network. It supports 1.7.x - 1.11.x.

[DasBungee](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/17481/) : DasBungee is a premium BungeeCord fork that adds an ip blacklist system and patches "all known exploits". It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

[FlameCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/13492/) : FlameCord is a Travertine fork that patches netty exploits that are harmful to BungeeCord. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.5.

[Flexagon](https://github.com/SeaEclipse/Flexagon) : Flexagon is a fork of Hexacord and Travertine meant just for testing purposes. It supports 1.7.x - 1.16.x.

[Gate](https://gate.minekube.com/) : Gate is a custom proxy written in Go with top performance, flexibility, and scalability. I believe it just supports 1.16.x.

[Glymur](https://github.com/StratusNetwork/Glymur) : Glymur is a fork of Travertine adding in some bug fixes and Stratus APIs. It is developed by the StratusNetwork server.

[GoLilypad](https://github.com/LilyPad/GoLilyPad) : A rewrite of Lilypad in the programming language Go. So far no releases (?).

[Gravity](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/17731/) : Gravity is a premium BungeeCord fork adding features like antibot, global messaging, and patches for almost all of the issues.

[GuardHexa](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16180/) : GuardHexa is a premium fork of HexaCord that patches a lot of bugs/exploits and has a bit of optimization. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.4.

[HexaCord](https://github.com/CronixMC/HexaCord) : HexaCord is a bungeecord fork adding Forge support before Waterfall did. It supports 1.7.x - 1.11.x on the GitHub.

[HQBungeeCord](https://github.com/moyugame/HQBungeeCord) : HQBungeeCord is a Waterfall fork aimed at improving stability and performance. No ideas what versions it supports.

[InsaneProxy](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16588/) : InsaneProxy is a premium fork of Travertine and Velocity, resulting in lower CPU usage and more exploits patched. It supports 1.7.x to 1.16.x.

[LilyPad](https://github.com/LilyPad/JLilyPad) : A seperate proxy with its own API and plugins that is most likely discontinued.

[Miners-League-BungeeCord](https://github.com/root1599/Miners-League-BungeeCord) : MLBC (for short) is a fork of BungeeCord created by and used by the Miners League Minigames Network for any custom patches/features they may need.

[Mudslide](https://github.com/Pemigrade/mudslide) : Mudslide is a fork of Avalanche meant to continue it on. It is developed by the GitHub account Pemigrade (they run Birdflop 
hosting) with the only known feature being "support for a custom server name". I have no idea which version it supports (likely 1.16) and should note it seems abandoned.

[NachoBungee](https://github.com/CobbleSword/NachoBungee) : NachoBungee is by the guys from NachoSpigot, which is a bad sign. On the GitHub page they list off features of what they forked, nothing new. Basically just Travertine I guess.

[SecureCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/15002/) : SecureCord is a free BungeeCord fork which patches from harmful exploits.

[SSCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/14562/) : SSCord is a premium fork of Waterfall adding some optimizations, anti-bot features like captcha, and patches some waterfall exploits. It supports 1.7.2 - 1.16.5.

[Travertine](https://papermc.io/downloads#Travertine) : A fork of Waterfall adding support for more legacy versions. Supports 1.7.2 - 1.16.5

[VanillaCord](https://github.com/ME1312/VanillaCord/tree/1.12) : VanillaCord is a BungeeCord fork allowing Vanilla servers to connect through BungeeCord. It supports 1.12.x - 1.16.x.

[Velocity](https://velocitypowered.com/) : A custom proxy with more software support. Supports versions 1.7.2 to 1.16.5.

[WaterCrash](https://www.mc-market.org/threads/559656/) : WaterCrash is a premium WaterFall fork adding 1.7.x support, adds real time ip blacklisting, and a crash/exploit preventer. It supports 1.7.x - 1.15.x. Currently the resource purchase page is deleted for unknown reasons.

[Waterfall](https://papermc.io/downloads#Waterfall) : WaterFall is a BungeeCord fork that adds performance optimizations, bug fixes, and supports forge servers. I don't know the versions for it.

[wCord](https://github.com/wtfaremyinitials/wCord) : A fork of BungeeCord with animated MOTDs. Supports 1.4.7 - 1.6.4.

[XCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/16843/) : XCord is a premium Travertine fork that adds antibot, antivpn, and some more general patches/performance increases. All while supporting 1.7.x - 1.16.5.

[zBungeeCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/10187/) : zBungeeCord is a premium BungeeCord fork optimizing BungeeCord quite a bit and cleaning up the commands.
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Client Protocols | A - Z

[BCtrysk](https://github.com/DJIronic/BCtrysk) : A custom fork of Geyser used by the BurningCube.eu server. I believe it just adds some custom patches.

[DragonProxy](https://github.com/DragonetMC/DragonProxy) : DragonProxy was the first way to get Bedrock players on a Java edition server. Today it has fallen behind though.

[FloodGate](https://github.com/GeyserMC/Floodgate/) : FloodGate is an add-on to Geyser which (from my knowledge) allows your server to be in online mode while letting Bedrock edition mode in.

[Geyser](https://geysermc.org/) : Geyser is basically a way to allow Bedrock edition players to join a Java edition server. I believe your server needs to be an offline (cracked) one for it to work though.

[LoyaltyMC-pspe](https://github.com/reflykunz/LoyaltyMC-pspe) : LoyaltyMC-pspe is a ProtocolSupport fork that adds Pocket Edition support and some optimizations. It runs on 1.13.2 and allows players in 1.4.7 - 1.13.2 Java edition to join or 1.9 - 1.12 Pocket Edition players to join.

[ProtocolSupport](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocolsupport.7201/) : Before there was ViaVersion, there was ProtocolSupport. Its quite buggy and support is quite lacking, but more versions can log in. Currently only works in 1.16.5, but clients 1.4.7 - 1.16.x can join using this. It is added like any other plugin like ViaVersion, completely plug and play.

[ProtocolSupport-Bedrock-Dev](https://github.com/Xernium/ProtocolSupport-Bedrock-Dev) : PSBD (for short) is a fork of ProtocolSupport which attempted to add Pocket Edition support

[ProtocolSupportPE](https://github.com/gIsForGravity/ProtocolSupportPE) : ProtocolSupportPE is a fork of ProtocolSupport which added Pocket Edition support to Java edition. It is currently only 1.13.2 though, but supports 1.4.7 - 1.13.x.

[ViaBackwards](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viabackwards.27448/) : ViaBackwards is an add-on to ViaVersion allowing older versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in older versions can join. It supports 1.10.x to 1.16.x.

[ViaRewind](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viarewind.52109/) : ViaRewind is an add-on to ViaVersion allowing even older versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in even older versions can join. It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

[ViaVersion](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viaversion.19254/) : ViaVersion is a plug and play way to allow anyone on newer versions to join your server. You add it like any other plugin, and now people in newer versions can join. It supports 1.8.x to 1.16.x.

# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Recommendations

For your proxy, I personally can only recommend [FlameCord](https://www.mc-market.org/resources/13492/). It's made by a great developer with open support, has all the patches you need, and is free. In my opinion, an easy decision.

For client protocols, I would go with [ViaVersion](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/viaversion.19254/) and its add-ons for allowing more Java edition versions, and if you need to add Bedrock support go with [Geyser](https://geysermc.org/). They're both very reputable and get updates often, beating out the competition.
